= CSV Import Test Instructions =

== Test Documents Naming Convention ==

There are two types of csv test files included in this directory.  The ones 
prefixed by "space_" are space-separated csv files, while those prefixed by 
"fixed_" are fixed width csv's.  

The files contain three types of number formats: 1-1 (num_dash_num), 1.1 
(num_dot_num) and 1,1 (num_comma_num).  Also, the ones ending with "_quoted" 
have their values quoted.  

== When Importing Each File == 

Import each file with and without the "Quoted field as text" option, and with 
and without "Detect special numbers" option.  Also import using at minimum, 
'English (USA)' and 'French (France)' as the Language.  

== Importing Fixed Width CSV with Quoted Values ==

When importing a fixed-width CSV file with quoted values, set the "Separator 
options" to "Fixed width", and set partitions between the quoted values.

== Importing Space-Separated CSV ==

Set the "Separator options" to "Separated by", and check "Space" check box and 
"Text delimiter" to '"' (double quote).  

== Language ==

Selecting different languages affects how thousands separators and decimal 
separators are interpreted.  For example, selecting 'French (France)' expects 
a valid number to be formatted as "123 456,789" whereas in 'English (USA)' the 
same number is expressed as "123,456.789".  In 'English (USA)', the thousands 
and decimal separators are ',' and '.' respectively, while in 'French 
(France)' they are ' ' and ',', respectively.  

== Quoted Field as Text ==

When this option is checked, any quoted value (such as "1.34") is imported as 
text, without automatic conversion to numeric value.  Since all texts 
internally carry a value of 0, performing arithmetic on such value always 
yields zero.  That's one way to test whether a cell has a text or a number.  
Also, using ISTEXT or ISNUMBER cell function is helpful in determining whether 
the value is text or number.  

== Detect Special Numbers ==

With this option checked, Calc tries to detect special numbers such as dates, 
scientific notations etc.  For instance, a value such as 1-1 will be converted 
to date using 'English (USA)' as the language, and a value such as 1.1 will be 
converted to date using 'French (France)', and so on.  
